In addition to the design of [[systems(prospective)]] like [[wearable devices]] and planners to support time management and attention, research is also being performed to explore the mechanics of how people manage their time and attention, and what features should be considered in new systems to support them.

One example is [[Lund and Wiese (2021)]], who examined how graduate students planned their days and how they utilized different time management and planning practices though interviews and a diary study of their time management methods over five days. Even though the authors originally expected that graduate students would use few time management practices because they unaware of then or they were too cumbersome, they actually found that each student used a variety of time management techniques already, and that, even though there were benefits to the more structured time management practices the authors had them perform, there were also drawbacks.

First, the time management behaviour of the graduate students in their study was much more variable than they expected, with different students using different methods and students even using different methods depending on the context of the situation; for example, they generally found that times of higher workload corresponded to a student using methods that led to more concrete plans. That is, a student may use a simple to-do list when they have a lower workload, and a fleshed-out schedule including when and what they’re working on when under a higher workload. Other contextual factors prevented the students who participated in the study from using certain time management practices, such as increased anxiety or stress for missing target work, or they were unable to accurately estimate how long a task would take as it depended on factors outside of their control. In this situation, the often highly-structured nature of some time management systems that require certain parameters of a task – such as the time to complete the task – would be unsuitable. Other students found that their work was so regular that a schedule was unnecessary, and that merely leaving a reminder for themselves of where they left off and where to pick up was sufficient. Even when given certain guidelines to follow, each person integrated their own systems and planning workflows. All together, these findings indicated a need for more personalization and flexibility in planning systems.

In line with these findings, Lund and Wiese (2021) also found that the graduate students in their study used a variety of tools to help them manage their time, but overall had a preference for flexible, general purpose systems like a notes app on their phone or computer, or a pen and paper rather than more structured, time-management-focused applications like Todoist. These general purpose systems usually allowed them to use imprecise times and rearrange or move tasks much more easily than more structured systems, and the students could use other applications to augment them were the general purpose systems fell short, such as for setting reminders. So, while most top time management and planning applications rely on heavily structured systems, Lund and Wiese (2021) found that planning needed the ability to be flexible, imprecise, and somewhat personalized to the persons’ context for more people to use it.

To address this, Lund and Wiese (2021) actually developed an application of their own ([[the Plan System]]) based on their findings, which they later tested in [[Wiese, Lund, & Kabir, 2023]].