Wearable technology, or wearables, are electronic devices worn as accessories or integrated into clothing. They offer convenience, health monitoring, hands-free operation, connectivity, and personalized experiences. Important for their ability to improve health, connectivity, and daily convenience.

Here are some very common features of wearables:
- Sleep trackers

- Fitness trackers

- GPS watches

Two excellent and vastly popular products that define the industry today are Apple's <b>Apple Watch</b> and Samsung's <b>Galaxy Watch</b>. Surprisingly, this tech almost invariably comes in the form of a watch or similar wrist band. 



The following interesting statistics were taken from [demandsage](https://www.demandsage.com/smartwatch-statistics/):

- It is predicted that there will be 224.27 million smartwatch users by the end of the year 2023.

- Apple smartwatches are preferred by 54% of smartwatch users worldwide. 

- 42% of smartwatch users have discussed the data obtained from their smartwatches with their doctors. 

- 18% of men wear smartwatches, while 25% of women wear smartwatches. 

- 20% of smartwatch users reside in urban areas, while 24% reside in suburban areas. 

- 92% of smartwatch users reported that they use smartwatches to maintain their health and manage it. 

- Apple owns 32% of the share of the smartwatch industry. 

- $43.4 billion is the global revenue generated by the smartwatch industry in the year 2022. 

- The expected growth rate of the smartwatch market is 14.9% CAGR between the years 2021 and 2028. 