Based on previous work by [[Lund and Wiese (2021).pdf]] that examined time planning strategies and created [[Guidelines for Future Time Management Systems]], [[Wiese, Lund, and Kabir (2023).pdf]] created the ‘Plan’ application.

Unique for its unstructured approach to [[Time Management]], the ‘Plan’ system developed by [[Wiese, Lund, and Kabir (2023).pdf]] is, in essence, an augmented text editor. Users are presented with a blank page for each day that they can use as they see fit, with additional functionality added to support the assignment of times to tasks, task reminders, checkboxes, and integration with third party applications like Canvas, while taking advantage of the flexibility of a text editor for ease of moving tasks and autonomy in how to plan.

[[Wiese, Lund, and Kabir (2023).pdf]] validated the usefulness of ‘Plan’ by examining in two phases how first year university students used it to plan their activities. First, they compared a week of planning with the students’ prior practice to a week of planning with ‘Plan’, then they examined how students’ used ‘Plan’ in their normal lives for at least a month. Results were mixed, as people who had already established planning practices generally found ‘Plan’ helpful and easy to use, supporting their pre-existing planning workflow and some additional better practices, while people without established planning practices wanted more structure to help them plan their day more consistently.

In general, students in the study identified a handful of areas they would want changed in ‘Plan’. First, they found the system cumbersome to type everything in plain text on their phone, and that the strictly daily view of the app did not fit their style of planning weekly or ahead of time. Some people also found it much more difficult to visualize their time in this format, preferring a digital calendar. The authors listed a series of improvements they may make to ‘Plan’ based on this feedback, including: creating templates to add structure for those who desire it; adding a weekly or monthly view; making the application compatible for desktop computers; and adding a ‘view’ mode that translated the plain text into something that may be less cumbersome to interact with.

Ultimately, [[Wiese, Lund, and Kabir (2023).pdf]] found that people each plan in a way that works for them, and supporting their existing workflow is integral to people continuing to use an application. The 'Plan' system is just one option that people can use out of several that may work better for them.

**Key Points**
- the 'Plan' system is an augmented plaintext editor, adding support for support the assignment of times to tasks, task reminders, checkboxes, and integration with third party applications like Canvas, to the flexibility of plain text.
- While most applications created for time management are structured, a more flexible and unstructured system can be beneficial for people who already have some experience with planning.
- Unstructured systems can also have drawbacks, as they can be cumbersome and may not provide the visualizations that users want.
- Different systems work well for different people, and people tend to only continue to use the application if it works well for them.